Hello and welcome to our tutorial soon to produce tutorials we take care of the preprocessing phase
and then we apply PCA on our data set to reduce its dimensionality down to two new extracted features
and now we are ready to build a classification model.
So speaking of classification model we started with a logistic regression model but actually from this
point we can build any classification model among all the classification models we made in part 3.
If I go back to part three classification this folder here you have here all the models we made in this
part 3.
And basically from this point you can build any model you want by just selecting your classification
model.
For example let's take support vaccination classification model.
Then you can just open the SVM file and then basically all you need to do is take everything after the
data processing phase that is from where you started to build your model and select everything down
to the bottom and copy and then your PC a file you can include your classification model right after
applying PCA on your dataset.
And so here I just replaced the logistic regression model by the SVM model and you can do this for any
classification model you want among the classification models.
We made it by three.
So that's very easy to replace your different models by this simple copy paste so that you can try different
classification models very efficiently.
So let's see what we get with this as a model.
For example we just need to change here the name of the dependent Roybal does not purchased but customer
segment.
Here we go.
And that's the only thing we need to change because the data here has embittering sets and this is the
trend is that we just transformed the new training set composed of the new extracted features.
And so basically we are ready to select the section and execute it to build our classification model.
And now that the model is built we are ready to predict the new observations of the test set.
And so this line is ready.
And actually we don't need to change anything because this index 3 here is the index of the dependent
variable.
And since we reduced the dimensionality of our data set down to 2 that means that we have two features
and one happened.
And therefore the index of the dependent variable is still 3.
And so we are ready to select this line and execute.
And now we have the predictions the test that results so we can have a look.
Why pred in the console press enter.
And for each observation of the test set we have it's prediction by the model the SVM model.
So for example the fourth line of the dataset that belongs to the test set is predicted to belong to
customer number one and the one number 132 is predicted to belong to customer segment number 3.
So very easy.
And then we can make the confusion matrix and say we don't need to change anything here because this
corresponds to the index of the dependent variable.
So we are ready to execute this as well.
Executes the confusion matrix is ready let's have a look and well perfect results.
We only get correct predictions as you can see 12 ones were correctly predicted to belong to customer
segment number one 14 ones were correctly predicted to be on to customer segment the 2.
And then once were correctly predicted to belong to customer segment number three.
And then we have zero incorrect predictions.
So these are excellent results.
And of course we get 100 percent accuracy.
So now we're moving onto the next part.
To visualize the 2010 results we should get amazingly well separated prediction regions and a very clear
prediction boundary.
So let's check it out.
But now we have something to change and this is not a tiny change as we used to do because now we have
three classes.
And as you can notice in this code when we plot the prediction regions thanks to this line well this
code template allows us to do it when we only have two classes because as you can see we have this if
else condition if Weigelt equals one then the color is green and else if we really call 0 then the call
is tomato.
And so when we plot observations.
If the observations of the set that is a trend set belongs to class 1 then it's green.
And if it belongs to zero that is an else condition.
The point will be red but now the problem is that we have three classes so we need to improve this code
here two distinct the three conditions if one equals zero if Waco's one and if y to.
So let's do it.
That will be good coding practice.
And speaking of coding practice what would be very good is that you try to do it before I do it in this
tutorial so you can press poznań try.
And now I'm going to do it.
So basically we need to add one more condition to condition where y equals two.
So let's do it let's add this new condition here.
If WEIGERT equals equals 2 then come up.
And then after this condition What grade is equal to 2.
We will put what we want and what we want is a new color because there is one color associated to each
value of y grade.
So we will keep spring green 3 for the case where WEIGERT equals 1.
And we'll keep tomato for the case where white grid equals zero.
But for what we call Sumathi to introduce a new color.
And since we have here green and red Let's put blue.
So good color is actually deep sky blue.
Then come up to get the next conditions.
So so far what we see is that if Wagh really equals equals two then the call will be Skyblue than if
y really calls one then the color will be green and if waggery equals zero then the color will be red.
But this is not how it works.
It's not as simple as that because this is actually not a correct syntax because this if else function
expects three arguments.
The first argument is the condition which really calls one then the second argument is the result.
When this condition is true and the third argument is the result.
When this condition is not true.
So here we have a lot more than three arguments.
That's not right.
And so the trick to solve this is to put all this.
That is the waggery equals one condition and then the results bring in three.
And then the result if y critical 0 into the third argument of this if else function.
So that means that we'll get the first argument why really calls to that's the condition.
Then the second argument deep sky blue that is the result when we get to and the third argument.
All this in one same argument.
And so how can we include all this in one same arguments.
Well we need to use another if else here which will contain the other two conditions where y really
equals 1 and Y really equals zero.
And so we need to be careful with the parenthesis because we had in your function this new function
if else.
And here it is.
Then you Berit this is added and now it should be fine.
So let's recap.
We start with this first.
If else here.
So if we're really close to then the call will be this guy blue.
And then if we agree is not equal to two then we go into this new else and this new IF ELSE contains
the two last remaining conditions.
That is if we agree because 1 then the call will be Springboro 3.
And if we call 0 then the call will be tomato like red and therefore we get our three conditions and
the correct syntax.
So that's a trick.
It's actually quite common to do it in coding.
So it's good to know how to do it.
And that's the same two plus the colors of our observation points.
So we need to take this and paste it here again and then replace this one here by two.
So that is the new first condition.
If our observation point belongs to class 2 then we want to give it a new color which will be a blue
color but a different blue than this deep sky blue.
And so you know we need to get a good contrast to that.
We don't confuse the color of the points and the color of the region.
So actually a good color to use here is lutherie blue realty that it will give us a good contrast.
And so that's the first result of the first condition and then say we need to include the two remaining
conditions here into one argument that is in sight and if else.
So if elsea in parenthesis and we don't forget at the closing parenthesis here and here we go.
This is ready.
So recap again if our observation point belongs to class 2 then it will have the color blue 3.
Then if it doesn't belong to class 2 then we go here.
And here we have two new separate conditions.
If our observation points belongs to class 1 then it will have the color green for and if it doesn't
belong to class 1 then it will have the color red 3.
So that should be ready and then we have to tiny changes to add.
So remember in this line here line 49 with the column names we need to put the real column names of
the columns of the training set and these column names are not age and estimated salary.
That was for the previous classification problem.
Now the column names are of course P.S. 1 and 2.
So here we just need to replace age by PS1 and estimated salary by the seat.
So that's compulsory.
That's actually what you need input.
Otherwise you will get an error when you execute your code.
And then here it's not compulsory but it's better for the visualization.
You can replace age by piece 1 and estimated salary by PC too.
But if you don't do it you will not get an error because this is just for the visualization.
This is just for the labels that you will see on the graph.
All right.
And then I think we're good.
I think this is ready to be executed.
Let's hope that I didn't make any mistake.
So we're going to try to execute this.
And let's see what we get.
So I'm going to select everything in this section.
So from here up to the top here and let's exiguous.
All right.
Good start.
It's running.
Let's see what we get.
Let's go into this plot tab it is still running.
And here we go we get our beautiful results.
So I hope you like my choice of the colors.
This is the deep sky blue.
And this is the blue 3:6 that we get.
The contrast between the observation points and the prediction regions so we can actually notch this
if you want.
So as a quick reminder the points are the real observation points that is these are the winds that we
have in our trainset and the regions are where our model predicts that once belonged to the customer
segments.
So for example the Green points are the ones of the training set belonging to customer segment number
two and this green region.
Here is where the model predicts that the ones belong to customers saying we're number two.
And same for the blue and red parts here.
All right.
Now we can quickly do the same for the test set.
So we actually need to do the same change just as we did for the training set.
That is let's start with the simplest one we need to replace here.
Age by PC One estimated salary by P C 2.
So these are compulsory changes and we can also change the labels even if that's not compulsory change
just replace age by PC 1 replace estimated salary by pc 2.
And here we go we are almost ready we need to make this big change here to add the third condition to
the third color and we can actually take these two lines here copy them and select this and paste.
All right.
We can do this because these are the same variable names as for the training set because we use this
set a variable name here for both the training set and the test set.
And so basically that's ready we can now select this whole section here and executes to visualize the
test results.
So let's do it.
Here we go.
Precessing the test results are come in and we should get a perfect plot's with no incorrect predictions
that means that we should get all the green points in the green region all the red points where here
we go all the red points.
As you can see are in the region and all the blue points in the blue region.
So that's perfect that's a perfect representation of 100 percent accuracy.
And so in conclusion we were able to transform a dataset composed of 13 independent variables into this
new data set of reduced dimension we were able to reduce the diamond down to two things to which we
could visualize the results in two dimensions.
Okay perfect.
We are done with this first section about PCa and now the interesting thing that we want to see is how
our next dimensionality reduction technique that we're going to implement is going to do on this dataset.
This next dimensional reduction technique is LDA linear discriminant analysis.
So we'll find out about that in the next section.
And until then nothing.